# Customer-Churn-Prediction
I am trying to predict the customers who might churn out of our UPI payment platform. Customer segmentation to reduce churn, churn prediction, and recommendation to arrest churn are the three board areas that modern B2C firms tackle using data science. Customers often move to different platforms for various reasons and need to be incentivized to retain the existing platform.  As a business entity, customer acquisition proves to be costlier than customer retention, and hence intelligent prediction in advance can help us employ various means to retain them. 

Unified Payments Interface (UPI) is a system that powers multiple bank accounts into a single mobile application (of any participating bank), merging several banking features, seamless fund routing & merchant payments into one hood. It also caters to the “Peer to Peer” collection request which can be scheduled and paid as per requirement and convenience. UPI as a method of payment was first introduced in the Indian economy.  This new payment technology comes with its own pros and cons just like any other technology. It can be easily learned, has wide accessibility, is safe to use, and many more. Today in the Indian economy, 4 major players offer this technology over their platforms and people often switch among these applications for various reasons and even use them concurrently. Thus, acquiring new customers and retaining them is a bone of contention among the business players.

Revenue in this business is directly proportional to the market share held by that player.  Also, since companies spend a large chunk of money on marketing spend in acquire new customers, losing that customer burns a hole in their pocket. Companies are thus prioritizing retaining the customer since retaining a customer is cheaper than acquiring a new customer. Thus, customer churn becomes one of the most important metrics for a growing business to evaluate. While it is not the happiest measure, it is a number that can give companies the hard truth about customer retention. Customer churn is the percentage of customers who stopped using your company's product or service during a certain time frame. Intelligently identifying the group of customers that might churn out and employing means like incentivizing them can help the business retain those customers. This intelligent prediction and deciding how to incentivize can be efficiently done through machine learning. We have performed several machine learning models with different feature engineering tests. The outcomes of the model are helpful in choosing the appropriate machine-learning model for prediction, considering the scores of different models.


